# How-do-I-automate-my-HR-department-
Improved productivity in business is a result of automation in HR. Today, HR has embraced Robotic Process Automation (RPA) tools, which are used for businesses to save time from doing repetitive tasks. Are you wondering how you can start automating your HR processes? Fear not, that is what we are going to discuss in this blog.  1.      Get buy-in from company leadership For automation in HR to work, those at the head of the company and its stakeholders need to understand what it is about and how it will benefit the company. Without the buy-in from the higher-ups, your plan to automate HR technology will either be abandoned early or will end up underfunded, therefore, won’t show the results. While being honest about its costs and challenges, show the HR management how this automation can help them with day-to-day tasks. Talk about how time can be saved through this. 2.      Seek help from experts HR technology is not as expensive to purchase or set up as people expect it to be. However, implementation will take a fair amount of time, cost, input, documentation, and expertise. That’s why HR consultants exist to help you out in such situations and processes. Your company should start looking for these consultants early on who can take you through the complex steps and necessary resources. Automation of HR requires an efficient implementation and planning early will help you out with the transition. 3.      List which process can be improved and streamlined The main benefit of HR automation is to streamline your administrative tasks, not make them automatic. A lot of the time, organizations use technology to simulate tasks that human beings can do, without giving consideration to how those processes can be improved with the help of technology such as. So, when HR automation is included, it leads to a little bit of change, not transformational enough. A change in mindset is required: Instead of thinking about what can be automated, think about what all is possible with automation. This attitude will help your organization have its eyes on higher goals and improve its efficiency in an effective manner. 4.      Choose the right software for yourself One of the most important steps if you are looking to automate your HR department, is to choose the right HR software for this task. Do some market research and see what are the latest software in use today. Choose your software in accordance with what fits your organization best, depending on your company’s size, number of employees, etc. 5.      Train your staff in the software + Educate the staff about the benefits If you have got a new automation HRMS software but your staff doesn’t know how to use it, the entire effort goes to waste. The idea behind automation is to make your employees’ lives easier. That is why it is important to train and educate your staff properly. If people don’t know how automation helps them, they are most likely to resist the change. Conclusion When you decide to automate your HR department, start with a straightforward process. Get people from other departments to collaborate in this process and take their inputs as well. Also, once HR automation is up and running, it doesn’t mean there will be no challenges. To ensure it is working properly and meeting performance metrics, you need to review it regularly.  Source: https://aayushbharat.com/all-ailments
